Welcome back to Movie Recaps. Today I will show
you a drama, crime, and action film from 1994,
entitled Léon: The Professional.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
A tracking shot takes us to Little Italy
in New York and inside a restaurant. Tony
tasks Léon to convince the fat man that moving
into Maurizio's territory isn't a good idea.
Léon takes the task. On the day, the fat man
enters his hotel with a massive security detail.
He's there to see his girl and do some business.
Léon arrives at the reception. The man gets a
call from Tonto, telling him that a serious man
is coming up to talk to him. He alerts his men
about the incoming company. They wait in front
of the elevator and the moment somebody appears,
they start shooting. The body was Tonto. The
rest of the men scatter, to get the car ready
and search for the assassin. As the main bodyguard
looks over the stairwell, Léon grabs him and pulls
him over. The others are packing up the drugs
and money, getting ready to run out of there.
Léon keeps picking the bodyguards off and blocks
both the exits. He traps the fat man in the room
and kills off the rest of his detail. Then peeks
through a bullet hole, prompting the man to fire.
The man grabs more guns and a telephone to call
911. He says somebody is trying to kill him and
hides until they connect him to an officer. Léon
shows up behind him and he hangs up. He tells
Léon to take the drugs and let him live, but he
just shows him a number and tells him to call it.
Maurizio greets him from the other side of the
line and tells him that they'll never see him
back in town again. He asks for Léon, then tells
him to make sure he understands and let him go.
Léon tells him to say that he understands and
disappears into the darkness. Later, Léon gets
his usual milk from the neighborhood store and
walks into his building. Mathilda is sitting on
the stairs and sees him walking up, then greets
him. Léon can tell that someone beat her up,
but she lies about how it happened. She tells him
not to tell her dad about the cigarette. Suddenly
someone walks out of her apartment and argues
with her father about the drugs he holds for them.
Malky tells him that he has to be honest about
the drugs so he doesn't have to disturb his boss.
However, Mathilda's father sticks to his story
so Malky tells his boss that he wouldn't admit
to cutting the drugs. Stan turns around and
sniffs the father, saying that he believes him,
but that he has to find out who did by tomorrow at
noon. They leave and the father yells after them
that they should find out themselves, then slaps
Mathilda around. Léon overhears the whole thing.
He showers, drinks his milk, irons his shirts, and
most importantly takes care of his plant. As night
falls, Léon sits down in his chair and sleeps.
The next day, Mathilda's family is going through
their morning routine. We see her dad,
mom, older sister, and little brother.
Léon is doing his morning exercise. The dad tells
her mom that he thinks he screwed up this time.
Mathilda changes the TV station and her sister
chases after her, slapping her around when she
gets to her. The phone rings and the girl answers.
It's Mathilda's school calling to tell her parents
that she's skipped school for two weeks and if
they don't explain why she'll get kicked out.
Mathilda says that she's dead. Léon puts his
plant in the sunlight and leaves his apartment,
overhearing the mess at Mathilda's. He
watches "Singing in the Rain" in the cinema,
enjoying every second. When he gets back home
he finds Mathilda on the stairs with a bloody
nose and tells her that life is always hard. She
asks him if she should get him some milk from the
store. Back at his apartment, he grabs a glass
and some milk. Simultaneously, armed men walk
into the building, followed by Stan. He takes
some sort of drug and says he likes the calm
little moments before the storm. Mathilda's dad is
waiting for them to arrive as they said they would
and Léon sees them in the hallway. Stan shoots his
way into the apartment and his men go after him.
He kills the mother first, then kills the
older daughter and ransacks the place.
His men are scared of him too. Stan finally gets
to the father and tells him it's one minute past
noon. Malky and the rest come inside and he tells
them to toss the apartment. Meanwhile, Mathilda is
in the store getting groceries. Stan toys with the
dad while the little boy hides under the bed. The
men are going through the apartment and Stan steps
aside for a moment, just long enough for the dad
to reach for the gun and start shooting. One of
Stan's men freaks out and shoots the whole place,
killing the boy. The dad runs but Stan still gets
him. When he sees that he got blood on his suit,
he follows him and empties an entire clip in him.
The man waiting outside gets nervous as he hears
the shooting and Malky stops Stan from shooting
anymore. Malky steps outside and almost gets shot
by the other guy Benny. Mathilda walks back into
the building and immediately realizes something
is happening. She sees that her dad is dead and
hears Malky say that they killed her brother.
She rings Léon's doorbell begging him to let
her in, while one of Stan's men watches her
struggle in front of the door. Léon hesitates but
eventually opens his door for her. She goes into
the kitchen and he stays by the door. Malky sees
that Mathilda is missing and they look for her.
The man by the door remembers Mathilda and comes
to Léon's door. He follows him with his gun, when
she turns on the TV, scaring both of them. They
find the drugs as the rest of the cops arrive.
Stan tells his man to tell them that they were
doing their job. Léon expresses his condolences to
Mathilda about her family, but she tells him that
they were all terrible, except her little brother,
who she loved very much. He gets a pig oven glove
from the kitchen and tries to cheer Mathilda up
in a childish way. Léon asks if she has anywhere
else to go and she says no. He gets some more milk
when Mathilda opens his case and finds his guns.
When he comes back she asks if he's a cleaner,
a hit-man. He says yeah. Later, Mathilda asks
how much it would take to hire him to kill the
men that killed her brother, and when she hears
the price, she offers him a deal - in exchange
for working for him he'll teach her how to become
a cleaner. Léon says no, but she tells him that
she has nowhere else to go. Instead of arguing,
he tells her to rest and they'll talk tomorrow.
He tucks her into bed and she tells him that he's
been very good to her. In the middle of the night,
Léon decides to kill the girl. When he
reaches the bed, however, he changes his mind.
The following morning Léon puts his plant
in the sunlight and does his exercise.
He hears Mathilda get up and tells her that after
breakfast she needs to leave. Mathilda hands him
a note only realizes that he can't read. It
says that she's decided what to do with her
life. Mathilda wants to be a cleaner. Léon gives
her a gun as his goodbye gift. He works alone!
Mathilda tries to convince him by
saying that since he saved her life,
he's responsible for it. Léon tells Mathilda
that she's just a little girl and that she
won't be able to do it. Mathilda takes the gun and
shoots out of the window as proof that she can.
Later, Léon and Mathilda are seen walking down
the street. He stops and tells her never to do
that again because it's unprofessional. They get
to a hotel. The receptionist asks if they plan
to play the violin there, so Mathilda lies
and charms him into saying that it's fine.
He gives them some forms to fill out and Mathilda
grabs them, saying she'll do that so Léon doesn't
feel ashamed. Léon leaves the plant downstairs
and joins her in the room. He goes through it,
checking it out thoroughly, then sits down
as Mathilda finishes with the documentation.
She pleads with him again to teach her
how to be a cleaner. Sometime later,
Léon goes to talk to Tony. He asked him to get a
gun meant for beginners and Tony can't believe it.
Léon tells him he needs it to practice. Later, he
opens the box with a rifle in front of Mathilda.
He says that the rifle is the first weapon she
needs to learn because it will let her keep her
distance from the client. The closer she gets
to becoming a pro, the closer she can get to
the client. They find the right position.
For practice, he tells her to hit whomever.
Mathilda peers through the scope and says no
women and no kids. She sees a man jogging and
Léon tells her what to do. He says now
and she hits the guy with a paintball.
Léon is impressed. Later, Mathilda is seen washing
the windows and the dishes and cleaning the guns.
They do crunches together and Léon makes her
drink milk. At night, she sleeps in the bed
and he sleeps in a chair as always. He wakes
her early in the morning to do more crunches,
but she exercises with the same program her sister
did. She teaches Léon how to write and he teaches
Mathilda to put a gun together. One day, Mathilda
thinks they need a break and tells him they should
play an association game. She dresses up like
Madonna, then Marilyn Monroe, then Chaplin,
but Léon has no idea who they are. Lastly, she
dresses like Gene Kelly and Léon finally gets it.
For his turn, he acts like John Wayne, but
she has no idea who he's supposed to be.
Mathilda watches Léon taking care of his plant and
comments that he really loves it. He says that the
plant is like him. She tells him that if he really
loves it he should plant it so it can grow roots.
One day, Léon goes to see Tony and asks him
if someday he can have the money he's made
over the years. Tony thinks he's met a woman and
tells him that he has to be careful with women.
He reminds him that he was in trouble because of
a woman before. Léon says that he would like to
give some of the money to help someone out. Tony
agrees and tells him that his money is there,
he should just ask. Then he hands him a hundred
dollars and says they need to talk business.
While Tony's away, Léon sees Mathilda talking to a
boy and goes out to talk to her. He scolds her not
to talk to random people on the street, tells her
to stop cursing and to stop smoking. Back at the
hotel, Mathilda tells Léon that she's falling in
love with him. Léon asks her how she knows and she
says that she feels it in her stomach. He tells
her that it doesn't mean anything and leaves for
work. He has a teeny breakdown in the hallway
but quickly gets it together. Mathilda watches
him go from the window. Later, she talks to the
receptionist and tells him that Léon isn't her
father, but her lover and leaves the man stunned.
She goes to her apartment and sneaks in behind
the tape. Mathilda takes her brother's stuffed
bunny and steps in the outline of his dead body.
She finds her dad's secret money when she hears
Stan come in and hides. Mathilda hears him tell
IA that her father reached for the gun so he
had to kill him and that he didn't see any kids.
The other cops tell him to cooperate. He says
that if he wants them to cooperate they should
come to his office. Mathilda remembers the number
of his office. She runs after him, gets in a cab,
and tells the cabbie to follow the car. Mathilda
finds out that Stan is a D.E.A. agent. She's
already back in the room when Léon arrives. He
gives her a present when the receptionist knocks
on their door to kick them out of the hotel.
Mathilda and Léon get another place. He takes
a shower and stitches himself up. Mathilda pours
him a glass of milk, hands him the money she got,
and orders a hit on the men that killed her
family. Léon says he's not taking the job and
that he won't lend her his gear. Mathilda asks
him why he's being so mean to her and why he
won't help her avenge her family. Léon says that
revenge is never good, that it's better to forget.
But Mathilda can't forget. He tells her that
nothing is the same after you kill someone,
she'll have to sleep with one eye open for the
rest of her life. Mathilda loads the revolver and
says that if she wins the game of roulette he has
to keep her forever. Léon tells her that she'll
lose because there is a round in the chamber. She
puts the revolver on her temple and says that she
loves him, but he grabs the gun and it fires
away from her head. Mathilda thinks she's won.
They go to see Tony together. Léon says that he
took a hit and needs help. Even though Mathilda's
young, she learns fast. Tony hesitates but tells
his busboy to get two glasses of milk for them.
Léon and Mathilda go to do a job together. He
teaches her how to tell where the chain is. Léon
rings the bell and she starts talking, convincing
the man to open the door for her. Léon breaks the
chain and she comes in after him. He puts his
gun in the man's mouth and brings him along as
he checks out the place. When he sees that it's
clear, he tells the man where to stand and tells
Mathilda that it's her turn. The girl puts her gun
together and shoots the man with a paintball. Then
delivers the second - security shot. Léon explains
what each shot is for as the man is confused about
what they're doing. He tells her never to shoot
in the face because they need to recognize the
client. Léon shoots the man and tells Mathilda how
to take care of her silencer. Before they leave,
she destroys the drugs. Later, they celebrate
with champagne. Mathilda asks for a kiss, but
he says no and tells her to sit down. She tells
him she's in love with him again. Léon tells her
his first hit was when he was 19. Mathilda chugs a
whole glass of wine and laughs maniacally, making
Léon super nervous. They go to make another hit
and another, perfecting their routine. When they
reach one apartment, Léon hears the man inside
preparing a gun and gets Mathilda out of the way.
He tells her that when it's ugly like that, she
should use the ring trick. Léon chucks a grenade
into the apartment and shows her the grenade ring.
The next day, Léon goes to see Tony by himself.
He's nervous and sits down telling Tony
that if something happens to him one day,
he should give his money to Mathilda. Tony says
that he can count on him. Later, Léon gets ready
for a job but tells Mathilda that he can't bring
her with him because it's a big one. He tells her
that he needs a moment for himself, some time to
grow up. Mathilda is left by herself, taking care
of the plant, watching TV, getting older. A few
boys try to bully her, but she just gives them
money and tells them to play somewhere else. She's
planning something. Mathilda stakes out Stan's
workplace and follows him inside. She pretends
she's taking food to his office and signs into the
building without a hitch. Mathilda follows Stan
into the men's room, but he waits for her there.
He orders her to put the bag on the floor and tell
him who sent her. Mathilda says she does business
for herself. He asks if it's something personal
and she tells him that he killed her brother.
Stan apologizes but asks Mathilda if she wants
to join him. She wants to live and he says that's
good because he takes no pleasure in killing
someone that doesn't want to live. Suddenly,
one of his men comes in and tells him that Malky
is dead. The people he was making a deal with
told the guy that a pro killed Malky. Before the
professional shot him he said "no women, no kids".
Stan doesn't kill Mathilda and tells his man to
take her to his office. She realizes that Léon
killed Malky. When Léon gets back home he finds
a note from Mathilda saying that she's after Stan
and that she's left money for a contract
to kill them if they end up killing her.
She says she loves him again. Léon quickly
goes to the D.E.A. office to get Mathilda.
She's in Stan's office with his men who
wonder what she would do with all those guns.
Suddenly, Léon shoots them both and they hug. That
night, Mathilda puts on the dress he got for her.
Léon likes it. She sits next to him and tries to
seduce him. Léon rejects her because he can't. He
tells her about a woman that he was in love
with, back in Italy. Her father didn't want
her to see Léon so he killed her. The police
let the father go after two days. One night,
Léon killed him and took a boat to America.
Since then he never had another girlfriend.
Mathilda says okay, but makes him share the bed
with her. Léon sleeps in a bed after a long time.
Later, Tony gets a visit from Stan. They surround
his restaurant. Stan sits down and asks Tony if he
knows who killed Malky, considering the hit was on
his territory by an Italian-looking man. He also
tells her about Mathilda and the man who came to
get her from his office. Stan wants to meet him.
Léon wakes up the following morning. Mathilda
asks if he slept well, but he answers that he
always sleeps with one eye open. She gets up
to buy some milk and they repeat the secret
knock. Léon lies back down. When Mathilda gets
back, Stan is there waiting for her. A SWAT team
grabs her before she can get into the apartment.
They ask her for the key and if there is a way
of knocking so he knows it's her. Mathilda gives
them the wrong code. The men knock on the door,
get ready to storm the apartment,
and inform Stan they're ready to go.
Once they go inside, they don't see Léon, who
closes the door behind them and kills them. The
others see that they're dead and call it in. Stan
turns to Benny and tells him to bring everyone.
Police patrols and emergency services surround
the building and more SWAT enter the building.
Léon waits in the apartment and begins shooting
until he also gets hit. One of the cops takes a
look at the apartment and finds himself eye to
eye with Léon's gun. He tells the others and
they back away. Léon tells them to let Mathilda
go. She joins him and gets the ax off the wall,
while he backs up, holding the officer hostage.
He shoots the sprinklers and the other officers
think he shot their guy so they come in shooting,
killing him themselves. Léon shoots again and they
back away, asking for reinforcements. Mathilda
apologizes as Léon prepares for the fight. He
saves his plant from the incoming sniper fire.
Then they go into the other room. The police
block out the hallway and Léon makes another way
for them to get out. He shoots a hole in the wall
and puts Mathilda in there. She doesn't want to
go because she knows he won't fit in there too.
Léon tells her that he has lots of money with Tony
that they will take and leave together. Meanwhile,
the police are preparing to blow them up. Mathilda
is worried that she'll lose him, but Léon tells
her that she's given him a taste for life and
he never wants to be alone again. He convinces
her to leave down the shaft and tells her that
he loves her. The police blow up the apartment,
but thankfully Léon survives. They get ready to go
in when they see someone raising their hand. The
man gets picked up and taken down. Léon managed
to fool them into thinking he's one of theirs and
they get him out. Meanwhile, Stan is pissed that
they can't find one man and a girl while Mathilda
gets out of the building. The medic is taking care
of Léon when Stan arrives and recognizes him. Léon
puts the mask back on and Stan gets all of the
officers out. Mathilda exits from the back then
walks right by the cops. Léon gets downstairs and
is close to the exit when Stan shows up behind him
and shoots him. He leans to check on him and Léon
asks if he's Stan. When he confirms it for Léon,
he puts a grenade ring in his hand and says
that it's from Mathilda. They both blow up.
Mathilda is with Tony who suggests that he
can hold the money for her as he did for Léon.
He gives her a hundred bucks, but she asks for a
job as a cleaner. Tony yells at her that it's over
because Léon is dead. They both hurt for him. Tony
tells her to get the money and get back to school.
Mathilda goes back to the school where she was
kicked out off and tells them a fake story about
how her parents died. The principal welcomes her
back to the school but gives her the condition
to stop lying to her. She wants Mathilda to trust
her. She tells her the truth and shocks the woman.
Mathilda plants Léon's plant in the yard
and says that they'll be okay there.